---
doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-61708-w
title: Uncertainty quantification of the lattice Boltzmann method focussing on studies
  of human-scale vascular blood flow
authors:
- J McCullough
- P Coveney
keywords:
- blood flow simulation
- lattice boltzmann method
- uncertainty quantification
date: '2024-12-01'
journal: Scientific Reports
publisher: Nature Research
scopus_cite: 1
pub_type: Article
auto_content: yes                                  # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE CONTENT
auto_data: yes                                     # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE METADATA
redirect: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-61708-w # DELETE THIS TO NOT REDIRECT
realauthors:
- J McCullough: J.W.S. McCullough
- P Coveney: P.V. Coveney
---


## Abstract
Uncertainty quantification is becoming a key tool to ensure that numerical models can be sufficiently trusted to be used in domains such as medical device design. Demonstration of how input parameters impact the quantities of interest generated by any numerical model is essential to understanding the limits of its reliability. With the lattice Boltzmann method now a widely used approach for computational fluid dynamics, building greater understanding of its numerical uncertainty characteristics will support its further use in science and industry. In this study we apply an in-depth uncertainty quantification study of the lattice Boltzmann method in a canonical bifurcating geometry that is representative of the vascular junctions present in arterial and venous domains. These campaigns examine how quantities of interest—pressure and velocity along the central axes of the bifurcation—are influenced by the algorithmic parameters of the lattice Boltzmann method and the parameters controlling the values imposed at inlet velocity and outlet pressure boundary conditions. We also conduct a similar campaign on a set of personalised vessels to further illustrate the application of these techniques. Our work provides insights into how input parameters and boundary conditions impact the velocity and pressure distributions calculated in a simulation and can guide the choices of such values when applied to vascular studies of patient specific geometries. We observe that, from an algorithmic perspective, the number of time steps and the size of the grid spacing are the most influential parameters. When considering the influence of boundary conditions, we note that the magnitude of the inlet velocity and the mean pressure applied within sinusoidal pressure outlets have the greatest impact on output quantities of interest. We also observe that, when comparing the magnitude of variation imposed in the input parameters with that observed in the output quantities, this variability is particularly magnified when the input velocity is altered. This study also demonstrates how open-source toolkits for validation, verification and uncertainty quantification can be applied to numerical models deployed on high-performance computers without the need for modifying the simulation code itself. Such an ability is key to the more widespread adoption of the analysis of uncertainty in numerical models by significantly reducing the complexity of their execution and analysis.
