---
doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-48776-0
title: High resolution simulation of basilar artery infarct and flow within the circle
  of Willis
authors:
- J McCullough
- P Coveney
keywords: []
date: '2023-12-01'
journal: Scientific Reports
publisher: Nature Research
scopus_cite: 0
pub_type: Article
auto_content: yes                                  # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE CONTENT
auto_data: yes                                     # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE METADATA
redirect: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-48776-0 # DELETE THIS TO NOT REDIRECT
realauthors:
- J McCullough: J.W.S. McCullough
- P Coveney: P.V. Coveney
---


## Abstract
On a global scale, cerebro- and cardiovascular diseases have long been one of the leading causes of death and disability and their prevalence appears to be increasing in recent times. Understanding potential biomarkers and risk factors will help to identify individuals potentially at risk of suffering an ischemic stroke. However, the widely variable construction of the cerebral vasculature makes it difficult to provide a specific assessment without the knowledge of a patient’s physiology. In this paper we use the 3D blood flow simulator HemeLB to study flow within three common structural variations of the circle of Willis during and in the moments after a blockage of the basilar artery. This tool, based on the lattice Boltzmann method, allows the 3D flow entering the basilar artery to be finely controlled to replicate the cessation of blood feeding this particular vessel—we demonstrate this with several examples including a sudden halt to flow and a gradual loss of flow over three heartbeat cycles. In this work we start with an individualised 3D representation of a full circle of Willis and then construct two further domains by removing the left or right posterior communicating arteries from this geometry. Our results indicate how, and how quickly, the circle of Willis is able to redistribute flow following such a stroke. Due to the choice of infarct, the greatest reduction in flow was observed in the posterior cerebral arteries where flow was reduced by up to 70% in some cases. The high resolution domains used in this study permit the velocity magnitude and wall shear stress to be analysed at key points during and following the stroke. The model we present here indicates how personalised vessels are required to provide the best insight into stroke risk for a given individual.
