---
doi: 10.1007/s10494-009-9206-2
title: Further development of a dynamic intermittency model for wake-induced transition
authors:
- S Kubacki
- K Lodefier
- R Zarzycki
- W Elsner
- E Dick
keywords:
- boundary layer flow
- by-pass wake-induced transition
- intermittency
- transition modelling
- turbine blade flow
date: '2009-12-01'
journal: Flow, Turbulence and Combustion
publisher: ~
scopus_cite: 16
auto_content: yes                                  # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE CONTENT
auto_data: yes                                     # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE METADATA
redirect: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10494-009-9206-2 # DELETE THIS TO NOT REDIRECT
realauthors:
  S Kubacki: S. Kubacki
  K Lodefier: K. Lodefier
  R Zarzycki: R. Zarzycki
  W Elsner: W. Elsner
  E Dick: E. Dick
---
{{< author "S Kubacki" "S. Kubacki" >}}, {{< author "K Lodefier" "K. Lodefier" >}}, {{< author "R Zarzycki" "R. Zarzycki" >}}, {{< author "W Elsner" "W. Elsner" >}}, {{< author "E Dick" "E. Dick" >}}

## Abstract
The transition model studied in this paper uses an equation for free-stream intermittency and one for near-wall intermittency, combined with the SST turbulence model. The model was already assessed in earlier work for wake-induced transition in boundary layers in separated state and in attached state. For separated state transition, the model predicts the start and growth of transition very well, except for the impossibility to describe the breakdown of the roll-up vortices in a 2D RANS simulation. In attached state transition, the model has the tendency to generate a delayed start of transition and a too slow growth rate in the initial phase of transition. We demonstrate that a delayed start of transition is inherent for a RANS simulation. We propose a repair for the too slow growth rate in the initial stage of the transition. Additionally, both for wake-induced transition in separated state and in attached state, the original model has the tendency to predict a state too near to laminar in between wakes at the trailing edge. We demonstrate that this is caused by the too rapid destruction of the near-wall intermittency during relaminarization and in the lack of activation of near-wall intermittency for low turbulence level in the free stream. We propose a repair for both deficiencies. The fourth improvement is that we take into account the influence of the free stream turbulence length scale in the criteria for onset of transition. We demonstrate the high quality of the improved model for wake-induced transition on a steam turbine stator blade for outlet Reynolds number 600,000 and two levels of turbulence in the background flow: 3% and 0.4%. © 2009 Springer Science+Business Media B.V.
