---
doi: 10.1007/s40571-015-0038-7
title: 'Characterizing flow in oil reservoir rock using SPH: absolute permeability'
authors:
- D Holmes
- J Williams
- P Tilke
- C Leonardi
keywords:
- absolute permeability
- no-slip boundary conditions
- smooth particle hydrodynamics
- x-ray μ ct
date: '2016-04-01'
journal: Computational Particle Mechanics
publisher: Springer International Publishing
scopus_cite: 22
pub_type: Article
auto_content: yes                                  # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE CONTENT
auto_data: yes                                     # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE METADATA
mcf: publications
redirect: https://doi.org/10.1007/s40571-015-0038-7 # DELETE THIS TO NOT REDIRECT
realauthors:
- D Holmes: D.W. Holmes
- J Williams: J.R. Williams
- P Tilke: P. Tilke
- C Leonardi: C.R. Leonardi
---


## Abstract
In this paper, a three-dimensional smooth particle hydrodynamics (SPH) simulator for modeling grain scale fluid flow in porous rock is presented. The versatility of the SPH method has driven its use in increasingly complex areas of flow analysis, including flows related to permeable rock for both groundwater and petroleum reservoir research. While previous approaches to such problems using SPH have involved the use of idealized pore geometries (cylinder/sphere packs etc), in this paper we detail the characterization of flow in models with geometries taken from 3D X-ray microtomographic imaging of actual porous rock; specifically 25.12 % porosity dolomite. This particular rock type has been well characterized experimentally and described in the literature, thus providing a practical ‘real world’ means of verification of SPH that will be key to its acceptance by industry as a viable alternative to traditional reservoir modeling tools. The true advantages of SPH are realized when adding the complexity of multiple fluid phases, however, the accuracy of SPH for single phase flow is, as yet, under developed in the literature and will be the primary focus of this paper. Flow in reservoir rock will typically occur in the range of low Reynolds numbers, making the enforcement of no-slip boundary conditions an important factor in simulation. To this end, we detail the development of a new, robust, and numerically efficient method for implementing no-slip boundary conditions in SPH that can handle the degree of complexity of boundary surfaces, characteristic of an actual permeable rock sample. A study of the effect of particle density is carried out and simulation results for absolute permeability are presented and compared to those from experimentation showing good agreement and validating the method for such applications.
