---
doi: 10.1063/1.4923744
title: The triple decomposition of a fluctuating velocity field in a multiscale flow
authors:
- P Baj
- P Bruce
- O Buxton
keywords: []
date: '2015-07-01'
journal: Physics of Fluids
publisher: American Institute of Physics Inc.
scopus_cite: 40
pub_type: Article
auto_content: yes                                  # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE CONTENT
auto_data: yes                                     # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE METADATA
redirect: https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4923744        # DELETE THIS TO NOT REDIRECT
realauthors:
- P Baj: P. Baj
- P Bruce: P.J.K. Bruce
- O Buxton: O.R.H. Buxton
---


## Abstract
A new method for the triple decomposition of a multiscale flow, which is based on the novel optimal mode decomposition (OMD) technique, is presented. OMD provides low order linear dynamics, which fits a given data set in an optimal way and is used to distinguish between a coherent (periodic) part of a flow and a stochastic fluctuation. The method needs no external phase indication since this information, separate for coherent structures associated with each length scale introduced into the flow, appears as the output. The proposed technique is compared against two traditional methods of the triple decomposition, i.e., bin averaging and proper orthogonal decomposition. This is done with particle image velocimetry data documenting the near wake of a multiscale bar array. It is shown that both traditional methods are unable to provide a reliable estimation for the coherent fluctuation while the proposed technique performs very well. The crucial result is that the coherence peaks are not observed within the spectral properties of the stochastic fluctuation derived with the proposed method; however, these properties remain unaltered at the residual frequencies. This proves the method's capability of making a distinction between both types of fluctuations. The sensitivity to some prescribed parameters is checked revealing the technique's robustness. Additionally, an example of the method application for analysis of a multiscale flow is given, i.e., the phase conditioned transverse integral length is investigated in the near wake region of the multiscale object array.
