---
doi: 10.1063/1.5047028
title: Flow dynamics in longitudinally grooved duct
authors:
- N Yadav
- S Gepner
- J Szumbarski
keywords: []
date: '2018-10-01'
journal: Physics of Fluids
publisher: American Institute of Physics Inc.subs@aip.org
scopus_cite: 14
pub_type: Article
auto_content: yes                                  # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE CONTENT
auto_data: yes                                     # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE METADATA
redirect: https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5047028        # DELETE THIS TO NOT REDIRECT
realauthors:
- N Yadav: N. Yadav
- S Gepner: S.W. Gepner
- J Szumbarski: J. Szumbarski
---


## Abstract
Flow in a finite-width rectangular duct with a corrugated top-bottom wall has been studied. The primary goal is to establish geometries that allow early flow destabilization at a possibly low drag increase. The flow is assumed periodic in the streamwise direction and bounded by the duct sidewalls in the spanwise direction; the top and bottom wall corrugations have a form of sinusoidal waves oriented transversely to the flow and form longitudinal grooves; i.e., the lines of constant elevation (or phase) are parallel to the direction of the flow. The analysis is performed up to the Reynolds numbers resulting in the formation of secondary states. The first part of the analysis is focused on the properties of the two-dimensional base flow. Mainly, the dependence of hydraulic losses and drag reducing properties on duct’s geometry is characterized. The second part of the analysis discusses the onset of the three-dimensional travelling wave instability over a wide spectrum of geometric configurations. Linear stability is investigated by means of the direct numerical simulation of the Navier-Stokes equations. Critical conditions for the onset of instabilities at a range of geometric parameters are determined. Finally, the nonlinear saturation of unstable modes and the resulting secondary flows are examined. We have shown that in the state resulting from the nonlinear saturation of the disturbance, the flow becomes more complex while the drag reducing properties of the base flow can be maintained.
