---
doi: 10.1063/5.0011456
title: Development of closure relations for the motion of Taylor bubbles in vertical
  and inclined annular pipes using high-fidelity numerical modeling
authors:
- T Mitchell
- C Leonardi
keywords: []
date: '2020-06-01'
journal: Physics of Fluids
publisher: American Institute of Physics Inc.subs@aip.org
scopus_cite: 17
pub_type: Article
auto_content: yes                                  # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE CONTENT
auto_data: yes                                     # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE METADATA
tclb: publications
mcf: publications
redirect: https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0011456        # DELETE THIS TO NOT REDIRECT
realauthors:
- T Mitchell: T. Mitchell
- C Leonardi: C. Leonardi
---


## Abstract
This study analyses the flow of Taylor bubbles through vertical and inclined annular pipes using high-fidelity numerical modeling. A recently developed phase-field lattice Boltzmann method is employed for the investigation. This approach resolves the two-phase flow behavior by coupling the conservative Allen-Cahn equation to the Navier-Stokes hydrodynamics. This paper makes contributions in three fundamental areas relating to the flow of Taylor bubbles. First, the model is used to determine the relationship between the dimensionless parameters (Eötvös and Morton numbers) and the bubble rise velocity (Froude number). There currently exists no surrogate model for the rise of a Taylor bubble in an annular pipe that accounts for fluid properties. Instead, relations generally include the diameter of the outer and inner pipes only. This study covered Eötvös numbers between 10 and 700 and Morton numbers between 10-6 and 100. As such, the proposed correlation is applicable to concentric annular pipes within this range of parameters. An assessment of the correlation to parameters outside of this range was made; however, this was not the primary scope for the investigation. Following this, the effect of pipe inclination was introduced with the impact on rise velocity measured. A correlation between the inclination angle and the rise velocity was proposed and its performance quantified against the limited experimental data available. Finally, the high-fidelity numerical results were analyzed to provide key insights into the physical mechanisms associated with annular Taylor bubbles and the shape they form. To extend this work, future studies on the effect of pipe eccentricity, diameter ratios, and pipe fittings (e.g., elbows and risers) on the flow of Taylor bubbles will be conducted.
