---
doi: 10.1063/5.0192443
title: Contextual existence of an optimum through-plane orientation and aspect ratio
  of a fiber-segment in fibrous air filters
authors:
- U Bhardwaj
- B Ray
- D Das
- T Mitchell
- A Das
- C Leonardi
keywords: []
date: '2024-03-01'
journal: Physics of Fluids
publisher: American Institute of Physics
scopus_cite: 1
pub_type: Article
auto_content: yes                                  # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE CONTENT
auto_data: yes                                     # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE METADATA
mcf: publications
redirect: https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0192443        # DELETE THIS TO NOT REDIRECT
realauthors:
- U Bhardwaj: U. Bhardwaj
- B Ray: B. Ray
- D Das: D. Das
- T Mitchell: T.R. Mitchell
- A Das: A. Das
- C Leonardi: C.R. Leonardi
---


## Abstract
Fibrous air filters have emerged extensively as a remedial indoor solution to address severe air pollution. To understand the complexities involved in variation of their performance with respect to their fiber anisotropy, a fundamental numerical study is undertaken to investigate the capture of inertia-dominated airborne particles by a fiber-segment at different through-plane orientations with respect to airflow direction. An in-house MATLAB code has been developed using the lattice Boltzmann method to model the airflow across fiber-segment, coupled with the Lagrangian approach to model the motion of particles as well as their interactions with the fiber-segment. The filtration performance parameters, viz., capture efficiency, pressure drop, and quality factor, have been evaluated at different through-plane orientations of the fiber-segment for its various segmental aspect ratios and different Stokes numbers. It is found that as the fiber-segment is turned from a parallel to orthogonal orientation with respect to airflow direction, the capture efficiency and pressure drop exhibit either a monotonic rise or broadly an increasing-decreasing kind of trend with an intermediate maximum, depending on the segmental aspect ratio of fiber and the Stokes number. Also, both these parameters are observed to decrease as the segmental aspect ratio of fiber is increased. Furthermore, an optimum through-plane orientation as well as an optimum segmental aspect ratio of the fiber-segment are found to exist for which the overall filtration performance is highest. The indicative optimum through-plane orientation of the fiber-segment is found to be a function of its segmental aspect ratio but not the Stokes number.
