---
doi: 10.1063/5.0227299
title: Hydrodynamics of molten media bubble columns for hydrogen production through
  methane pyrolysis
authors:
- R Okajima
- T Mitchell
- C Leonardi
- S Smart
keywords: []
date: '2024-10-01'
journal: Physics of Fluids
publisher: American Institute of Physics
scopus_cite: 0
pub_type: Article
auto_content: yes                                  # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE CONTENT
auto_data: yes                                     # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE METADATA
mcf: publications
redirect: https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0227299        # DELETE THIS TO NOT REDIRECT
realauthors:
- R Okajima: R. Okajima
- T Mitchell: T.R. Mitchell
- C Leonardi: C.R. Leonardi
- S Smart: S. Smart
---


## Abstract
Methane pyrolysis using a molten media bubble column reactor is a promising technique for hydrogen production with low carbon dioxide emissions at a feasible price. Understanding the bubble dynamics in molten media is essential to elucidate the reaction mechanisms and establish design requirements for efficient reactors. Computational fluid dynamics provides an effective means to understand the hydrodynamics in opaque molten media. This research used the volume of fluid method to study the effects of gas injection rate as well as variations in gas and molten media (iron, aluminum, and a salt mixture of sodium bromide and potassium bromide in a 48.7:51.3 molar ratio) properties on bubble dynamics. The computational model was first validated using existing experimental and empirical observations. This study makes fundamental contributions to the understanding of bubble dynamics in molten media. First, it was confirmed that gas properties had a small effect on bubble dynamics. The difference in bubble diameters between argon at ambient temperature and 1600 °C was less than 10%. Second, it was found that the volumetric gas injection rate and molten media properties significantly impacted the bubble dynamics, including the bubble diameter and flow regime. Future work will build on these findings to recommend appropriate operating conditions and molten media for specific pyrolysis reactor designs.
