---
doi: 10.1108/HFF-07-2011-0149
title: Predictions of round impinging jet heat transfer with two k-ω hybrid RANS/LES
  models
authors:
- S Kubacki
- J Rokicki
- E Dick
keywords:
- flow
- heat transfer
- hybrid rans/les
- les
- rans
- round impinging jet
- turbulence modelling
date: '2013-07-29'
journal: International Journal of Numerical Methods for Heat and Fluid Flow
publisher: ~
scopus_cite: 4
auto_content: yes                                  # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE CONTENT
auto_data: yes                                     # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE METADATA
redirect: https://doi.org/10.1108/HFF-07-2011-0149 # DELETE THIS TO NOT REDIRECT
realauthors:
  S Kubacki: S. Kubacki
  J Rokicki: J. Rokicki
  E Dick: E. Dick
---
{{< author "S Kubacki" "S. Kubacki" >}}, {{< author "J Rokicki" "J. Rokicki" >}}, {{< author "E Dick" "E. Dick" >}}

## Abstract
Purpose - Applicability of two k-ω hybrid RANS/LES and a k-ω RANS models is studied for simulation of round impinging jets at nozzle-plate distance H/D=2 with Reynolds number 70000, H/D=2 with Reynolds number 5000 and H/D=10 with Reynolds number 5000 (D is the nozzle exit diameter). The aim is to verify two concepts of unified hybrid RANS/LES formulations, one of DES (Detached Eddy Simulation) type and one of LNS (Limited Number Scales) type in analysis of impinging jet flow and heat transfer. The grid resolution requirements are also discussed. Design/methodology/approach - The simulations are performed with two k-ω based hybrid RANS/LES models of very different nature, one of DES type and one of LNS type, and the RANS k-ω model. For the lower Reynolds number (5000), also dynamic Smagorinsky LES is done. Both hybrid model formulations converge to the same RANS k-ω model in the near-wall region and have the same Smagorinsky limit on fine isotropic grids in the LES mode of the hybrid models. Findings - With the hybrid RANS/LES models, improved fluid flow and heat transfer results are obtained compared to RANS, in the impact region and in the developing wall-jet region. For accurate predictions at low nozzle-plate distance, where the impact region is in the core of the jet, it is necessary to sufficiently resolve the formation and breakup of the near-wall vortices in the jet impingement region and the developing wall-jet region, as these determine largely the level of fluctuating velocity and the heat transfer. This requires high grid resolution for high Reynolds number, while the grid resolution requirements stay modest for low Reynolds number. Originality/value - The paper demonstrates that two formulations of hybrid RANS/LES models of different nature, one of DES type and one of LES type, lead to equivalent results. Consistency has been guaranteed in the sense that the RANS limit of both models is the same and that the LES limit on fine, isotropic, grids is the same. In the intermediate range, however, the repartition into resolved and modelled fluctuations may differ considerably. © Emerald Group Publishing Limited.
