---
doi: 10.1088/1742-6596/530/1/012027
title: Performance of a micro-UAV lifting system built with the usage of rapid prototyping
  methods
authors:
- R Dalewski
- K Gumowski
- T Barczak
- J Godek
keywords: []
date: '2014-01-01'
journal: 'Journal of Physics: Conference Series'
publisher: Institute of Physics Publishinghelen.craven@iop.org
scopus_cite: 2
auto_content: yes                                  # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE CONTENT
auto_data: yes                                     # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE METADATA
redirect: https://doi.org/10.1088/1742-6596/530/1/012027 # DELETE THIS TO NOT REDIRECT
realauthors:
- R Dalewski: R.T. Dalewski
- K Gumowski: K. Gumowski
- T Barczak: T. Barczak
- J Godek: J. Godek
---


## Abstract
This article presents results of the aerodynamic testing of a micro unmanned aerial vehicle rotor efficiency. The rotors were prepared as a set of two rotors in a counter-rotating ducted drive. Prototypes of the drives were made using two rapid prototyping techniques - FDM - fused deposition modelling method and SLS - selective laser sintering. Rotors were made then treated by introducing additional finishing cyanoacrylate coating and abrasive processing. Main differences between those models were observed in fan shape, porosity, surface roughness and mechanical properties - stiffness. An influence of these factors was observed on an aerodynamic efficiency. For the obtained prototypes both simulations and experimental testing were conducted with thrust, power, torque measurements, as well as the measurement of velocity and pressure distribution at the outlet of the duct. The results show the possibility of using rapid prototyping techniques to produce prototypes of drives operating in the low and medium Reynolds numbers (6000-60000), and the aerodynamic shape relevant factors affecting the preparation and performance of such drives. In addition, simulation studies were performed using the Fluent environment where experimental results were confronted with the results of simulation studies.
