---
doi: 10.1177/0954410020925642
title: Flat-upper-surface wing for experimental high altitude unmanned aerial vehicle
authors:
- C Galinski
- M Gronowska
- W Stalewski
- K Gumowski
keywords:
- aerodynamic design
- airfoil
- semi-span model
- wind tunnel tests
- wing
date: '2021-01-01'
journal: 'Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part G: Journal
  of Aerospace Engineering'
publisher: SAGE Publications Ltd
scopus_cite: 0
pub_type: Article
auto_content: yes                                  # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE CONTENT
auto_data: yes                                     # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE METADATA
redirect: https://doi.org/10.1177/0954410020925642 # DELETE THIS TO NOT REDIRECT
realauthors:
- C Galinski: C. Galiński
- M Gronowska: M. Gronowska
- W Stalewski: W. Stalewski
- K Gumowski: K. Gumowski
---


## Abstract
Technology of photovoltaic cells and lithium batteries is developing rapidly. As a result, more and more attempts are made to build solar high altitude long endurance airplanes. Unfortunately, data on altitude impact on photovoltaic cells and batteries performance are not easily available. Moreover, acquisition cost of cells is still high. As a result, high altitude long endurance airplanes design is expensive and risky. Therefore, a tool for inexpensive testing of cells is needed. A small and very light unmanned aerial vehicle can be used for this purpose. It could fly as high as the envisaged high altitude long endurance airplane with a small number of cells and batteries, providing valuable information on them. The weight of such an experimental unmanned aerial vehicle could be minimized because long endurance would not be required, so heavy load of lithium batteries could be minimized, reducing also weights of other components. Wings of this unmanned aerial vehicle should enable installation of various types of photovoltaic cells including rigid ones. Therefore, it would be advantageous to apply an airfoil with a flat-upper-surface as large as possible. Unfortunately, flat-upper-surface airfoils are not popular in airfoils catalogs. Therefore, an attempt was undertaken to design an airfoil with 75% flat upper surface. The research focused on maximization of the lift-to-drag ratio and power factor assuming low Reynolds numbers conditions since it was designed for a small unmanned aerial vehicle for photovoltaic cells testing. This paper contains description of design methodology, design assumptions, and the obtained results. Moreover, the authors describe the experiment undertaken to verify the design. The wind tunnel and a semi-span model used for this experiment are presented together with the obtained results. The model has a similar structure to the envisaged structure of unmanned aerial vehicle, so flexibility of the wing is taken into account.
