---
doi: 10.1177/09544100211070868
title: Multi-objective surrogate model-based optimization of a small aircraft engine
  air-intake duct
authors:
- P Drezek
- S Kubacki
- J Zoltak
keywords:
- aerodynamic shape optimization
- air-intake duct
- efficient global optimization
- kriging
- mesh morphing
- metamodel
- multi-objective optimization
- surrogate model
date: '2022-11-01'
journal: 'Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part G: Journal
  of Aerospace Engineering'
publisher: SAGE Publications Ltd
scopus_cite: 4
pub_type: Article
auto_content: yes                                  # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE CONTENT
auto_data: yes                                     # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE METADATA
redirect: https://doi.org/10.1177/09544100211070868 # DELETE THIS TO NOT REDIRECT
realauthors:
- P Drezek: P.S. Drężek
- S Kubacki: S. Kubacki
- J Zoltak: J. Żółtak
---


## Abstract
Aviation industry is constantly striving for more efficient design processes in respect to optimal time, human and computational resources utilization. This implies a need for application of an approximation techniques enabling for fast responses generation with maintained level of results quality. This study focuses on an advancement of aerodynamic shape optimization process of a small aircraft engine intake system by introduction of a surrogate modelling step into the design loop. The multi-objective metamodel assisted optimization is carried out in order to reduce pressure losses along the engine intake duct and increase flow homogeneity at the engine compressor intake plane. Latin Hypercube Design method is utilized in order to sample the design space. A set of initial objective function evaluations is generated with application of Reynolds-averaged Navier–Stokes solver. The ensemble of samples is further used to train a Kriging-based surrogate model. The Efficient Global Optimization algorithm basing on the Expected Improvement function is employed to gradually increase the metamodel prediction quality by usage of sequential sampling technique. Finally, the optimal point predicted by the Kriging surrogate is validated against the high-fidelity model with usage of the Computational Fluid Dynamics code. The paper presents an application of the abovementioned methodology to the design process of the I-31T aircraft turboprop engine intake system. Proposed Kriging-based optimization workflow is utilized in order to reduce pressure losses and improve flow homogeneity in the engine air-intake duct.
