---
doi: 10.1177/09544100231153703
title: Air curtain as a SARS-CoV-2 spreading mitigation method in a small aircraft
  cabin
authors:
- K Kurec
- B Olszanski
- K Gumowski
- M Klamka
- M Remer
- J Piechna
- S Kubacki
keywords:
- air curtain
- aircraft cabin ventilation system
- contaminant transport
- discrete particle method
- sars-cov-2 transmission
date: '2023-09-01'
journal: 'Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part G: Journal
  of Aerospace Engineering'
publisher: SAGE Publications Ltd
scopus_cite: 1
pub_type: Article
auto_content: yes                                  # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE CONTENT
auto_data: yes                                     # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE METADATA
redirect: https://doi.org/10.1177/09544100231153703 # DELETE THIS TO NOT REDIRECT
realauthors:
- K Kurec: K. Kurec
- B Olszanski: B. Olszański
- K Gumowski: K. Gumowski
- M Klamka: M. Klamka
- M Remer: M. Remer
- J Piechna: J. Piechna
- S Kubacki: S. Kubacki
---


## Abstract
This paper discusses an application of air curtain for reduction of virus-laden droplets transmission from an infected host to other passengers in a small aircraft cabin. The study is restricted to respiratory droplets emitted during coughing. Discrete Particle Method introduced for violent respiratory events (VRE) captured in detail the movement of coughing puff inside the cabin and allowed to study the interaction of droplets with the air curtain’s stream and the surrounding air. The results show that the application of the air curtain inhibits the transmission process of small droplets (diameters ranging from 10 to 40 μm). The air curtain supplied with a limited air mass flow cannot alter the multiphase puff dynamics, but it can be utilized to deflect the virus droplets with lower momentum away from the neighboring passenger. Improved removal efficiency of virus-laden droplets has been achieved owing to the application of the air curtain together with supplementary suction surfaces introduced on the front seat backrest. The virus (SARS-CoV-2) transmission process was also analyzed by means of mass concentration of CO2 exhaled by the infected host, used as a contamination tracker. This part of the work aims at assessment of an applicability of CO2 tracer gas in analysis of virus transmission. Results show that CO2 tracer gas can only be employed for the study of small size droplets dispersion (diameter less or equal to 40 μm).
