---
doi: 10.3997/2214-4609.202373012
title: Towards a Statistical Framework to Upscale Fracture Flows with Quantifiable
  Uncertainty
authors:
- T Mitchell
- D Sashko
- L Laniewski-Wollk
- C Leonardi
keywords: []
date: '2023-01-01'
journal: 2nd EAGE Workshop on Fluid Flow in Faults and Fracture - Modelling, Uncertainty
  and Risk
publisher: European Association of Geoscientists and Engineers, EAGE
scopus_cite: 0
pub_type: Conference Paper
auto_content: yes                                  # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE CONTENT
auto_data: yes                                     # DELETE THIS TO NOT AUTO GENERATE METADATA
tclb: publications
mcf: publications
redirect: https://doi.org/10.3997/2214-4609.202373012 # DELETE THIS TO NOT REDIRECT
realauthors:
- T Mitchell: T. Mitchell
- D Sashko: D. Sashko
- L Laniewski-Wollk: Ł. Łaniewski-Wołłk
- C Leonardi: C. Leonardi
---


## Abstract
Modelling of single- and multi-phase flow in fractured subsurface systems is critical in applications relating to the environment, energy, and resource extraction. However, techniques for quantifying the effect of fracture characteristics such as roughness and wettability, as well as fluid flow regimes, on hydraulic properties (e.g., relative permeability) are not described in the literature. Often fractures are approximated as parallel plates (at some level of locality), ignoring intrinsic roughness and decorrelation between surfaces. This leads to the well-known Cubic or Local Cubic Law for single-phase flow, of which many modifications have been proposed to cater for various pore-scale flow phenomena. Although there is a wide range of available literature working within such a methodology, the realisation of a general, robust model based on expected properties of the fracture surface remains a challenge. In comparison, two-phase fracture flows see significantly less development in the literature, with only few studies characterising permeability-saturation curves as a function of fracture properties. Roughness and wettability impact pore-scale flow and can lead to earlier transition between various displacement regimes and govern the relative permeability of the fluid phases present in a fracture. This work aims to develop a framework for studying the impact of fracture-scale phenomena and upscaling it to the level of Discrete Fracture Networks, and then into field-scale analysis. This talk will provide examples of the studies conducted for single- and two-phase flow at the fracture-scale and discuss the methodology of upscaling the observed behavior while quantifying the uncertainty introduced by fracture characteristics (e.g., topology, wettability).
